and welcome back to a fresh episode of
the business growth show i'm your host
sam dunning co-owner over at
webchoiceuk.com and if you haven't yet
check out our weekly email where i'm
sharing actionable web and marketing
tips
useful podcasts free guides bonus
resources and much much more each and
every monday so you can start your week
off with a bang sign up over a business
growth dot email
[Music]
so with that my guest today is nick
bennett nick's the director of
evangelism and customer marketing over
alice and he's also the rep your brand
podcast host nick welcome to the show
mate how you doing great thank you so
much for having me
no worries dude so looking forward to
this this is a fresh topic for the show
we're going to be talking all about how
companies can use gifting to drive
cell's pipeline so with that sir
it's gifting just a fad like to me it
sounds a bit unusual i've not done a lot
of it so i might be a bit of a gifting
noob but is it a fad when it comes to
b2b sales and generating pipeline i
don't think it's a fad i think it's it's
figuring out the right way to use it i
think it's all about realizing that
gifting is not a silver bullet but if
you realize it as part of your larger
pipeline strategy it actually makes a
huge difference it's all about
connecting to people on the other end
everyone knows what you do in your nine
to five whether you're a marketer sales
person an owner entrepreneur or whatever
but what are you passionate about in
your five to nine when you're not
working that's when you connect to
people on a deeper level that's when you
utilize gifting within that strategy and
that's when you drive actual revenue
um okay interesting so
in terms of actually sending gifts
is this something that all b2b companies
should be considering or is it something
that's very specialized for perhaps
companies that offer a real big ticket
slow sales cycle products so what what
are some of our initial considerations
that companies need to think about
yeah i think i don't you know i don't
think there's really a cut off i think
it's determining what you're looking to
get out of a gifting strategy are you
looking to drive strictly pipeline um
are you looking to drive people to
events are you looking to do kind of
like
wake the dead campaigns for lost ops
that you are trying to re-engage are you
trying to use it for customers for
celebrations for churn prevention um
there's literally so many different
moments that you can use dick gifting
across the buyer's journey and people
focus only on one or two but to make it
a truly successful strategy it's really
incorporating all of these pieces
together or a majority of the pieces
together
yeah yeah yeah i really want to dive
into some of those topics because that
could be interesting in terms of
different different cells because i
think myself when i think of gifts i
kind of think of
the classic oh you've it's it's
christmas time let's send you a let's
send you a present oh it's your birthday
let's send you a present just just the
usual cliches rather than like you said
then whether it's like you've not heard
from someone in a while or perhaps
you're trying to trying to break into a
new account that you've been prospecting
so those kind of unusual lesser-known
strategies for gifting i think would be
really interesting nick if you could
perhaps share some with us and yeah how
they've worked yeah absolutely so i'll
give you a perfect example i don't know
if you can kind of see
this it's basically a uh a patent of a
baseball and so this was actually a gift
that i was gifted i spoke at alice's
conference back in 2020 it was a virtual
conference and so nina butler who was
running the conference at the time who i
now work with
uh she knew that i loved baseball that
i'm super passionate about it and so she
went out of her way and sent me this
personalized gift with a really
incredible note to go along with it and
now look at it it's at the center of my
room like literally every meeting
everything that i'm on it's it's right
there and i think that's
when you connect to the person on a
deeper level versus just sending someone
another yeti mug or another cup that
they're probably going to throw in the
trash you want to cut down on the waste
that's being spent so focus on things
that people actually want and that's one
of the things that we've always focused
on we have ai and human driven research
that actually will go out and kind of
figure out what is that perfect gift for
someone and then it's just you know
executing on that on the back end yeah
so for what you've shared there i mean
does it take quite a lot of research
nick to in in that case that sounds like
quite a really personalized gift so this
person looked into what what kind of
sports you liked and then got something
that was really really thoughtful it
sounds like so does it always need that
much
i guess research on the person and
understanding what they care about
it doesn't always require that much
research but honestly i could tell you
the whole process to research someone on
our platform takes about
really two to three minutes to to get
everything set up click the button it
goes to our team and you get it back
within you know 30 minutes to an hour
and then it's up to you to either
personalize a video to go along with it
or personalize the message but you'll
get three gifts that are given back to
you and then you can kind of either pick
one of those three gifts or you can go
pick another one of our 8 000 or 9 000
gifts that we have in our marketplace um
and set a personalized note with it and
some people honestly they just say like
all right i'm gonna send a gift card
gift cards are always nice but i feel
like that's that's something that you
know
i don't wanna say it's cheap it out but
like why not send something that is
powerful and a beauty of what we do is
called the power of choice so say i
don't like this baseball pattern i can
actually exchange it or i can donate to
a charity of choice
interesting okay
so
we've talked about so in that case was
this someone that wanted to set up a
meeting with you nick
no it was
it was really just to thank you for
speaking at the conference oh it's a
thank you sir yeah yeah got it and
perhaps we can talk about some other
angles of the sales cycle so if someone
perhaps wants to
get a meeting with a prospect is there
any best practices that you recommend
for for that approach to sending a gift
yeah i think it's i think it's really
making it personal like i say personal
as far as like the message or the video
that's going along with it i feel like
anytime you can include video whether
you're prospecting even if you're not
sending a gift video goes a long way
when you're trying to break into new
accounts because it shows people your
authentic side it shows people that like
hey i'm not just mass blasting this out
to 5 000 people right now i took time
whether it's 30 seconds 60 seconds to
send you a personalized video i know the
things that you're passionate about i
know the pain points that you're looking
to solve by the way
i thought this gift would be perfect for
you because of xyz you add that into
your video and i
100 this is actually proven like the
conversion rate actually skyrockets at
that point
right how how does that work so you send
a video once that get you know the gifts
been landed with the customer so
yeah so it's actually so what will
happen is when you pick the gift that
you want we actually integrate with
vidyard or um any you can embed any
video link into the alice platform and
so you could actually record your videos
so when i say send you a gift sim
you'll get the gift and you'll basically
see a video from me you'll click to play
the video and then you'll see the gift
on the right hand side and then you can
either accept it enter your address or
you can exchange it or donate to a
charity of your choice
gotcha gotcha that's interesting in
terms of have you seen any best
practices nick perhaps your sales team
have used this in terms of once you
actually send that gift and you've added
a customized message
what should happen next i mean should
the sales rep pick up the phone and give
them a dial and say what did you think
of the gift can we book a meeting or are
there any etiquettes or best next steps
yeah so we actually have built into the
platform you can actually require a
meeting being booked to get the gift so
say i send you a gift to actually accept
the gift you'll have to book a meeting
on my calendar my calendar would pop up
in there you pick time you then go
through and accept the gift exchange or
donate so that's one way to know but the
sales person or the sdr or bdr is
actually getting email notifications
throughout this whole process so when
someone views a gift when someone
accepts a gift when they donate or
exchange it when they write a thank you
note at the end of the process that all
goes back to the original sender and we
capture all that information uh in
salesforce and it's in marketo so like
we're seeing all of this information so
we can go back and say all right i sent
sam six gifts over the last two years he
accepted three of them um here's you
know what they were
here's what we were looking to get out
of it here's the campaigns that it was
you know directly being attributed to
and so you could see like hey are we
moving the needle with sam are we
sending too many gifts are we not
hitting the mark with the gifts that are
maybe more personalized for him um and
so you can see all these trends and
directly you know take the roi out of it
to see are you actually moving the
needle
gotcha gotcha and for companies that
perhaps aren't ready to invest in a
platform like your own or others out
that are out there are there any other
ways that they can still do these
similar kind of techniques and perhaps
send their own messages or
yeah i mean i i think you could
definitely i think you can really
replicate it in a lot of cases on a
smaller scale with even like amazon
things like that because you could still
send a note to go along with it um or
you could just buy directly from these
vendors yourself it's just it's the
extra process of going through doing the
research figuring out what they're
liking going through buying it yourself
it's not like a one-stop shop but you
could still do that go out but when you
start to scale that to sending you know
thousands of gifts it becomes a lot more
difficult uh and then that's the point
when i think you know it makes sense for
a platform to come into play
cool okay so we've talked about
prospecting to accounts what about i
think you mentioned earlier in the the
chat nick reactivating old leads or
perhaps
prospects in your pipeline that have
gotten cold
yeah it's actually a big use case for
that so like when you have like lost uh
lost lead re-engagement so you're trying
to
maybe your product wasn't in a good
enough spot for that specific account or
that opportunity that you had but now
you added some features so you're going
through and you're just re-engaging
those people and it's really a way to
regain the attention of your key buyers
or get your foot in the door to restart
that sales conversation so that's one
way um and the same thing for like the
lost op engagement it's all about trying
to remind them
of the relationship that you built prior
but
understanding how they would be treated
as a customer of yours for the extra
mile that you're going through to work
with them um so those are kind of those
two pieces but you've also got the
middle accelerator which i would say in
a lot of cases goes unnoticed um for
sales teams you know you use maybe
gifting to book the meeting from a
prospecting perspective
your you know going through the sales
cycle you know when you're halfway
through or maybe three quarters of the
way through why aren't you using gifting
as a way to
accelerate those opportunities whether
it's you know inviting them to an event
following up with a specific gift post
event like there's so many other ways
you can do it that you're staying top of
mind so it's not just another email that
you're sending
that's interesting so any examples snick
perhaps for companies that are tuning in
feel free to use ones that have used for
you or clients or prospects where
they've perhaps had a deal that start to
slow down or perhaps it's got a bit
stuck and they want to speed up so any
ideas on how we can send gifts and how
that actually works to speed up sales
cycles yeah absolutely so i have a good
example of this so it's something i'm
doing currently where i've created these
swag boxes that we're using for mid dail
accelerators and so when someone hits a
stage three for us which is kind of like
halfway through the the sales process
um i'm working with our our ae and our
sales leadership team to find you know
the champion within those accounts and
we're sending these really highly
personalized swag boxes and in the swag
box it's a really nice note from our ceo
with a qr code um and a few other items
and then that qr code will actually take
you to a website that we've built that
will talk through people through
you know the alice experience what does
direct mail plus gifting because they're
two separate things direct mail i think
of physical whereas gifting i think of
digital um how do those two things come
together to provide an amplification
strategy
for your prospects time uh that they're
looking to achieve
got it got it interesting so
why do you think
i guess getting more into the
psychological side of things why do you
think that gifting is effective
is is there is there any main reasons
behind it because i can say for one i've
got a gift from the sponsor so chili
piper a while ago and i can tell you it
doesn't happen much for me so i'd be
interested to know your thoughts in more
the psychological side of things why you
think it works i i just think it it
makes people feel like feel a certain
way it gets people to feel like you're
creating special moments for them and
i'll give you a good example of that and
this isn't something that we did but
chili piper sent me a case um
within the case there was a personalized
bottle of champagne with my name on it
um in one of those like machete type
things that you like take the top off of
the champagne bottle and a few other
items and so like
that was a highly personalized item that
like they went out of their way to
create and like that made me feel really
good as someone that's not even you know
i'm personally a customer of theirs but
alice is not a customer of theirs and so
when i think of a platform and product
that like i want to go with like
it would probably be them because of all
the things that they're doing to make me
feel more human at the end of the day
you know they're empathetic to
everything that's going on and they're
always there to help support um and i
feel like more companies should focus on
that versus just
sending gifts to book meetings because
you're still losing that personal
connection if you're not
digging deeper
yeah to me it definitely feels like you
break through the noise just because as
as a company co-owner just so rare that
companies will actually send you
something of of interest of use or if
you do it's something real cheap like
we're talking about the start like a
mouse mat or a cup or a mug or something
quite basic so if you can get one step
further i think it definitely like
they're saying makes people feel
something so
with that said how does gifting do you
feel nick compare or stack up when it
comes to
tradition more traditional go to market
strategies i.e cold calling we know cold
calling um still works well i certainly
do i used to do it before we went fully
inbound um likewise cold email how does
it stack up against some of these
more
well-known traditional strategies to get
meetings on the calendar yeah you know
it's a really good point and so i think
that you have to step back when you
think of gifting
gifting can be considered a a nice to
have in a lot of cases
however you know with budgets being cut
it's not always a must-have it's not
like you're implementing salesforce or
marketo where it's like that's a
must-have to my business
but
when you step back and kind of think
about it
outbound marketing
unless you have so much inbound that you
don't need outbound but i don't think
there's really that many companies that
can say that but you will always need
outbound marketing now how do you take
gifting and put it into your outbound
marketing strategy and show people that
hey cold calling is still important cold
emailing is still important inviting
people to events is still important
using gifting is part of your outbound
marketing strategy is still important
when you tie all those things together
and you present it in one way is like
hey this is amplification and surround
sound to the entire outbound marketing
strategy
it really is a huge difference in the
way that you think of it versus just
gifting by itself
yeah okay and with that said are there
any ways or best practices you've seen
nick of how people have utilized it in
organizations where they're doing cold
calling perhaps they use it halfway
along the way or likewise if companies
doing cold email if it fits into some
kind of sequence
yep yeah it's it's a good point so you
know we always recommend don't use
gifting as the first step in any
sequence it's just people
you could turn off a lot of people for
us we actually use it around step seven
uh within the the cadences that we have
set up so
some of them is step four or five and
recently a few of them have been step
seven because you're getting to add
value early on in that conversation
whether it's the calling whether it's
the email
throughout that you're learning more and
more uh
about the prospect about the account
you're working with the aes marketing's
being involved especially if it's target
accounts and you're doing a account
based marketing strategy um then you can
really tailor that gift if you still
haven't heard from people to hopefully
get through and get your foot in the
door but yeah i would say definitely
not early on in that initial uh cadence
and should
is there any best practices when it
comes to actually sending out gifts
because i suppose it just depends on
when you're where your organizational
company is on how much you can actually
fork out or spend or invest in these
gifts and i suppose if there's a massive
account massive company you're looking
to up to go after you can probably
invest a fair bit wherever it's a
smaller organization perhaps you want to
be a bit careful so are there any
considerations on that front nick yeah i
think it's it's really just kind of like
what you mentioned it's figuring out the
budget that you're looking to spend and
it could be on a campaign by campaign
basis so say
you're going after like your tier one
accounts like these are the must win
accounts for the first half of the year
you're to invest more from a budget
perspective into those so maybe you're
sending out 100 gifts
versus 25 gifts but you set all the
budget parameters so that the sales team
the sdr bdrs or even marketing they
don't have to worry about it they know
for this campaign it's a 25 budget and
so they have all of the parameters and
gifts that fall under that that bucket
as you scale up you can see all of that
and you can see what's the open rate
what's the conversion rate are we
booking meetings from it are we driving
conversations or engagement you could
see all of these things and you can tell
which campaigns are performing better
than than others and we actually have a
few customers that are sending like
gifts like a way to get into sea levels
um in certain industries that is very
very hard
is that this is going to be a tough one
to to answer but are there any stats
that you've got nick on
companies that
let's say from an outbound perspective
that only do
cold email
cold cool perhaps they do linkedin
outreach compared to companies that send
gifts on a percentage of meeting
increases that they've actually seen are
there any tangible stats
yeah there definitely is we have a few
uh a few customer quotes a few case
studies out there i'm actually
rebuilding a lot of our case studies
right now to be a lot more tangible but
you know if you think about it you know
cold emailing is less than one percent
of like a conversion rate and we have
some people that are in that like three
to five percent conversion by using
gifting from it we have a few higher
ends that are closer to like 14 or 15
percent
conversion rate um so i think it really
depends one the industry who you're
going after what's that target market
look like what types of gifts are you
actually sending
um
but i would say you know
mostly on average like three to five
percent is good and that's a lot better
than that less than one percent that you
would typically get
sure makes sense so
to
lay out a framework or a step by step
are there any for any companies that are
tuning in any marketers that are
listening in watching and thinking i
quite would like to to get gifts in in
our process to see if we can ramp up
meetings is there like a step by step of
what you should have in place now
what you should then look to do and how
you can steadily break into sending
gifts um to to prospects
yeah i think it's i think it's figuring
out like what is your strategy first
like where could you
i mean don't just set up a strategy for
gifting
use gifting as part of your already
strategy that you have for outbound
marketing um and then once you have that
in place
figure out is this something that i can
do myself on a smaller scale because
some people just they send out like
maybe 10 gifts a month maybe less than
that and it's just not worth them to
spend the cost for a platform but when
you get into sending hundreds of gifts
per month as a collective team
especially as you're moving up market
into the enterprise like
it definitely makes sense from a time
from a time bringing perspective from a
scaling perspective and then i think it
makes sense to like have those
conversations and see if it fits into
your strategy
and it's something in a lot of cases
where it's we typically sell into the
marketers actually so like field
marketers abm demand gen growth event
like it's typically the marketers that
are using their budgets but in a lot of
cases uh the sales team is actually the
one that's utilizing it uh on the front
end in the marketing team supporting
them on the back and although that that
is starting to shift a little bit we're
seeing more and more marketers that are
running the campaigns on behalf of sales
okay so it sounds like it's
understanding how many
what you want to get out of it where
it's going to fit in with the rest of
your your marketing strategy or your
outbound sales campaigns then
understanding how many prospects you
actually want to send them to if a if a
platform's worth investing in at this
stage or not and then going from there
exactly
got it so all this said is there any big
nose in it is there any massive things
that you need to avoid any terrible
things that you should definitely not do
when it comes to shipping out gifts so
everyone tuning in can avoid and make
sure they get on the right next step
i i think it's just you know spamming
people with stuff it's just
like
and don't don't waste the budget that
you have to be able to send a gift if
you know someone's gonna throw that in
the trash think about it like
like when i send stuff i think to myself
is this something that i would use maybe
or would i throw this in the trash if
the answer is throw it in the trash i
usually don't send it um but if it's
something where i think it's purposeful
where i think there's a reasoning behind
it then i think yeah absolutely you know
what i am going to go with that and i'm
going to send a personalized video or
note to go along with that um
i think another piece is
don't gift like as part of like a first
touch point it just it turns people off
absolutely
right
yeah so wait for it
when we when we mentioned something
earlier nick is there is there is there
a piece wave or a moment rather in the
sequence whether that's email calls
whatever that you found to be optimal
from your experience
i think it's i think it's really in the
i would say after after you've done
probably two calls two emails
it's usually that's that's when it comes
after that
yeah yeah and already just to flip it on
its head i mean mostly we've talked and
talked about outbound is there any
inbound
advantages to sending out goodies
maybe when it comes to like middle
accelerators but they're already coming
inbound to you they want to see the
product but you may
you may still need to accelerate it
got it
nice one so that said i think we've
covered the 360 degree angle really of
all things gifting is there anything
before we wrap things up nick any final
considerations that everyone
tuning in should should consider before
they get started
no i think it's really just figuring out
how can you make gifting as part of your
outbound strategy it's just
utilizing it in a way to actually move
the needle versus just sending gifts
just to send them
yeah makes sense nice one sir so with
that said nick thanks very much for
coming on the show really appreciate you
sharing your wisdom and adding value to
our audience please do tell us more
about how everyone can get in touch with
you connect with you or learn more sir
absolutely so you could definitely go to
alice.com if you want to learn more
about the company uh if you want to
submit a demo head over to get a demo
how did you hear about us throw my name
in there i will make sure to personally
take care of you you could also find me
on linkedin um i'm on there probably
more than i care to say but shoot me a
dm shoot me a connection request i look
forward to connecting with you
nice one nick and we'll put all of those
links over in the show notes over at
businessgrowth.marketing and with that
thanks once again for coming on the show
thanks for having me
cheers man and as always if you enjoyed
today's episode be sure to hit that
subscribe button or leave us a quick
rating on your podcast channel it's very
much appreciated and with that we should
catch you on the next one cheers